It was summertime, and a group
of brothers and sisters made arrangements
during vacation time to go to the beach.
And so during that time,
heading to the beach is where I met her.
I had met her sisters, but I had not met her.
My grandparents and my aunt
were a very important part
in raising me and my sisters.
They learned the truth first, in Ecuador.
We always lived close by.
I always went to visit them.
And they helped my parents
in guiding me into the truth.
The first three or four years of our marriage,
we were about an hour and a half away from our family.
That was really hard on me
because I’m close to my sisters.
So it was kind of hard being so far—
To me that was really far.
I knew early on
that one of the most important things
that I needed in a mate
is someone who loves Jehovah.
And they always say—
I remember my parents
(and at the meetings) always said,
“Find someone
who loves Jehovah more than they love you.”
And it’s easy to say that,
but then you find someone
and you realize that she
loves Jehovah more than she loves you.
She has demonstrated it
through our entire marriage.
When it comes to Jehovah, he’s first.
I think that is the key
to a successful marriage.
I think the biggest challenge
we went through in our marriage
was our first year in the circuit work.
It was hard enough
moving 3,000 miles away from everyone
and starting a new type of life.
Two months later, my grandfather dies;
six months right after that, my mother dies.
So after her mom died, my mom passed away.
It was one right after the other.
That was a difficult time for us
—all the pain and suffering
from losing our moms and loved ones.
Many times we felt
that we could not continue.
It was overwhelming.
The period of time
was eight months
and ten days between the death
of Mimi’s mom and my mom.
The threefold cord is a routine
in which Jehovah is included
in the marriage
—from reading the Bible together,
to going in the ministry together,
to doing everyday things together.
And as you do this,
Jehovah is present in your marriage.
We always think that it’s our Bible reading.
Actually, we don’t think—we realize
that our Bible reading
is very important for us.
We pick a book;
we start reading it, and we know
that is what keeps us together.
We were both already pioneering
before we got married.
And when we got married,
we just figured out a way
to continue pioneering together
to make sure
to start our spiritual careers together.
So we have to always depend on Jehovah,
which is the best Person to always depend on.
We spent a lot of time by ourselves,
driving from city to city
and from state to state.
We had plenty of time to reflect, to talk,
and to draw close to each other
—to not only rely on Jehovah
but also to be closer between us
and to spend more time
talking about the visits,
talking about the friends,
and talking about how we feel.
I think that at the end
it was the toughest assignment,
but it was the most rewarding
of all the assignments we had had
in all these years in the traveling work.
Because it’s the three of us
and Jehovah’s an equal part of our marriage,
it doesn’t matter what we go through
—whether it’s Peter or I
that’s having a little bit of a struggle—
because Jehovah is there.
He’s going to keep us united and strong.
And also, it’s not just
in the things we do while we worship.
Yes, we worship together,
but it’s also all the other things
that we do Jehovah’s way.
We’re best friends,
and we enjoy spending time together
outside of service and the meetings.
We like doing fun things outside.
We like the outdoors.
When we’re facing a difficult challenge,
we will go to Jehovah in prayer together
and specifically pray,
“Jehovah, help us with this challenge.”
Our assignments have helped us
to always be with each other
because we have the same goals in mind.
We’re working together
for the same purpose.
So the same schedule
—spiritual schedule—
has really helped us to go through
these challenging periods in our life.
Knowing that Jehovah is our Creator,
the Sovereign Being
—he’s the one who should tell us what to do.
And there is an arrangement,
and when you follow his arrangement,
there’s happiness; there’s success.
We’re in an imperfect world,
but his arrangement works,
and we have felt it.